# Understanding Public Opinion on Climate Change and its Implications for Business Strategy

## About

Climate change has become one of the most pressing and complex challenges to humanity that has emerged in recent years. With its rapidly increasing potential to impact just about every facet of modern society including human health, infrastructure, resource availability, and even business practices, there is increased pressure and interest by many different stakeholders to develop effective policies and strategies to mitigate its impacts. 

However, between highly politicized discourse, lack of understanding and education, and the volume of misleading information that is easily available, climate change has become a hotly debated topic that elicits very passionate responses from many different groups of people, making it difficult to gauge accurate public support of climate-focused initiatives such as renewable energy resources. Despite the tense public opinion, many countries are beginning to adopt strict regulations for businesses when it comes to the impacts of business activities on both climate change and biodiversity loss (Foley 2024). Recently, Europe adopted an extremely ambitious biodiversity strategy that aims to significantly reduce (and even improve) the impact of business that businesses have on nature as a whole, being one of the first to adopt such strict regulations but not anticipated to be the last (EURPARC Federation 2024). Because of this increased pressure, there is an extremely high demand particularly from businesses impacted by these regulations on how to align their practices with these new standards while having positive impacts on their consumers in such a contentious space (Porter & Reinhardt 2019). 

Understanding public perceptions of climate change is crucial to develop effective communication strategies, inform evidence-based decision making, and implement policies that meet the diverse needs and concerns of different communities. By gaining insights into the varying attitudes, beliefs, and levels of awareness surrounding climate change, businesses and other stakeholders can tailor actions that promote widespread engagement, foster climate and biodiversity resilience, and drive collective action towards sustainable solutions while minimizing negative effects on their consumer base (and in best cases, even creating positive effects on their consumers) (Anderson 2017). As many businesses begin to adopt practices such as utilizing more renewable energy resources in their operations and supply chains, it is important to anticipate how their consumer base may react so that these companies can be prepared to appropriately respond. Understanding how their consumer bases may respond to such changes in these practices is also a huge opportunity for companies to capitalize on these actions and build out sustainability strategies that not only allow them to meet their sustainability goals and align with new mandates, but gain consumer favor in the process.

## Data Sources
For this project investigating the public’s feelings towards funding research on renewable energy resources, data from the Yale Program on Climate Change Communication’s Climate Change in the American Mind National Survey was utilized which contains thousands of survey responses from Americans from 2008-2022 about their opinions and behaviors regarding climate change. The data was obtained directly from Yale University’s School of the Environment by request.

### References
Anderson, A. (2017). Public Perception of Climate Change: Factors, Impacts, and Strategies. Annual Review of Environment and Resources, 42(1), 113-135. doi:10.1146/annurev-environ-102016-060653.

Ballew, M. T., Leiserowitz, A., Roser-Renouf, C., Rosenthal, S. A., Kotcher, J. E., Marlon, J. R., Lyon, E., Goldberg, M. H., & Maibach, E. W. (2019). Climate Change in the American Mind: Data, tools, and trends. Environment: Science and Policy for Sustainable Development, 61(3), 4-18. doi: 10.1080/00139157.2019.1589300

EUROPARC (2024.). EU 2030 Biodiversity Strategy. EUROPARC Federation. https://www.europarc.org/european-policy/eu-biodiversity-strategy-protected-areas/eu-2030-biodiversity-strategy/#:~:text=The%20EU%202030%20Biodiversity%20Strategy%20sets%20the%20following%20targets

Foley, M. (2024). Businesses Scramble As Global Regulators Set Their Sights On Biodiversity Impacts. Forbes. Retrieved June 1, 2024, from https://www.forbes.com/sites/maryfoley/2024/02/21/businesses-scramble-as-global-regulators-set-their-sights-on-biodiversity-impacts/?sh=34f110bb3534
Porter, M. E., & Reinhardt, F. L. (2019, November 23). Climate Business | Business Climate. Harvard Business Review. https://hbr.org/2007/10/climate-business-_-business-climate

Yale Program on Climate Change Communication (YPCCC) & George Mason University Center for Climate Change Communication (Mason 4C). (2024). Climate Change in the American Mind: National survey data on public opinion (2008-2023) [Data file and codebook]. doi: 10.17605/OSF.IO/JW79P
